a tiny ipod well it seems much less
threatening than a rock concert right
but it could actually be more dangerous
in fact studies have found that young
people have a rate of impaired hearing
two and a half times greater than that
of their parents and grandparents dr
kourosh parem an ear nose and throat
specialist at ENT at uconn health center
is here to explain doctor how are you
good morning oh well thank you i'm doing
well as well so let's take a look at the
tips we're going to talk about we
already talked about the problem we've
solidified that but now let's look at
tips to prevent cheering loss Yvonne
it's all about noise volume control
volume is really the main factor here so
there are various strategies to control
that volume one is to simply turn it
down know when you are typically in a
noisy environment we turn to turn the
volume up when we transition into quiet
environment we should bring that volume
back down if we transition into an
environment there are other people
speaking if we can't hear them talking
over our iPod that's too loud I can show
you that's a great rule of thumb but I
find that even if I can't if I hear
someone else I want to tune them out so
I raise up the volume and that's not
what you should do definitely not i mean
that's one of the factors that causes
more impairment of hearing in the face
of other noise whether it's in a car
driving around and the ipod is in the
car noise causing problems so people
tend to turn the ipod on or when you're
in an environment where other people are
speaking it causes the greater risk for
hearing loss when we keep turning that
volume up when you talk about limiting
your time because that makes sense of
course to do that how much are we
talking about how many hours per day or
what should it be again it depends on
the volume you know one we have a
conversation that's typically oh it's 60
decibels we can keep on talking but we
turn the volume to about a hundred
decibels but rock concert and 110
decibels we can take the about an hour
of that fairly safely once the year
starts to ring or hearing becomes
muffled we've been exposed to too much
and we gotta rest the air the greater
the energy the less time we can be
exposed to the sound now those are signs
that people ignore myself included i was
telling you here in the broadcast
business we wear something called an IFB
in our ears it's just a little device in
our ears and for the 10 past 10 12 years
I've had it at full blast so I
we'll say I have impaired hearing in my
right ear when people talk to me
sometimes I turn to the left that's
that's horrible unfortunately it's a
common problem with people are in
broadcast really yourself ESPN
regionally when we see people are going
to a very earpiece they have a preferred
year and that ear tends to be exposed to
excessively loud noise and we keep
turning that out louder and louder as
hearing loss progresses we got to find a
comfortable level that's functional yet
doesn't cause any further a impairment
I'm from experience I'll say once you
lose the hearing in your ear it's gone
unfortunately that's true that's
permanent there are once we get initial
exposure to loud noise if we cut down on
exposure give our ear arrest we can
recover that hearing but if you keep
exposing it to that stimulation that's
excessive loss becomes permanent where
else do you find there to be problems
other than iPods I mean anything where
you you have something in your ear well
anything that you have an insert
earphones volumes tend to be long but
keep in mind even occupational the
household exposures a lot more
excessively exposing somebody like
yourself that already has existing
hearing loss can be a potential source
for additional hearing loss so you're
saying in this case don't wait until you
lose it such as myself you're saying you
want to prove you want to keep this and
be proactive exactly the prevention is
the key is nothing we can do once it's
lost other than put a hearing aid in
your ear yeah well I don't think we're
at that point yet but I I think I need
to turn it down I have it at the loudest
yeah I know I know you not do you know I
know I'm getting myself in trouble with
them already but yeah I have it at the
loudest at the loudest volume but
anything else you want to let people
know as far as when it comes to hear
loss hearing loss is preventable
majority of cases are hearing loss is
due to noise exposure there are other
factors like our genes and environmental
noise we can't do much about but when it
comes to control with iPods and things
like that we can prevent it and that's
the sad part hearing loss is going to be
a major problem for our society if we
don't bring this on your control you
might not feel so much at this point but
10 years 15 years in the future will
come back to haunt on your right and as
I mentioned at the beginning about the
rated impaired hearing two and a half
times out of their parents and
grandparents so you're saying even at a
younger age you're seeing more and more
cases absolutely a nice touch
hearing loss ringing in the ears that's
becoming more and more prevalent youth
did not use to complain of that very
much that's a sign that there is
significant high frequency hearing loss
and over time that will progress to go
into speech areas where people will have
very in appreciation of that loss yes
I'd muffled that's right once it gets
into the low frequency area then the
hearing sounds muffled so someone is
experiencing this at home and thinking
when I'm going to be honest with myself
sometimes this is what I experienced or
good then they definitely need to go see
an ENT away and the ear needs rest after
that kind of symptom occurs you have to
have at least 48 hours of rest give the
ear a chance to recover a little bit ok
dr. parm thank you so much thank you for
I appreciate it